Introduction of Java prigramming language

 java programming language is developed by James Gosling at Sun Microsystems in early 1990s and scince then,
 It has been immensely in mobail application development, game development, big data technologies and IoT & cloud-based applications amongst others.
 
10 reason to learn java programming language

 1. java is popularity and high salary.
 2. java is easy to learn.
 3. java has an abundant api.
 4. java has large community.
 5. java has multipal open sorce libraeies.
 6. java has powerful development tools.
 7. java is free of cost.
 8. java is platform independent.
 9. java has gerat documentation support
 10.java is versatile.

some feature of java

 1. simple and familior.
 2. Object-Oriented.  
 3. platform independent. 
 4. secured 
 5. robust. 
 6. Architectural neutral.
 7. portable.
 8. hight-performance   
 9. distributed.  
 10. Multi-threaded. 
 11. dynamic and extensible.
 12. comiled and interpreted.

 explain all feature one by one
 
 >simple
  1. Accound to sun java language is simple because  syntax is base on c++(so easier for progrsmmers to learn it after c++)
  2. Remove many confusing and /or  rarely-used feature like explicit pointer, overloding etc.
  3. No need to remove unreferenced Object because is Automatic Gabage Collection in java.

 >Object Oriented
  1. Object-oriented programming (OOPs) is amethodology that simplify software development and maintenance by providing some rules.
  2. Basci concepts of OOps
   1. Object
   2. class
   3. inheritance
   4. polymorphism
   5. Abstraction
   6. Encapsulation

  >platform independent
  1. A platform is the hardware or software environment in which a program runs. there are two type to platforms software-base and hardware-base, java provide software base platform.
  2. it have 2 components.
    1. Runtime Envirnment
    2. Apl(application programming Interface)
  3. java coe run in multiple platform like Windo, linux, sun solaris , mac/os etc .java code is compiled by the compiler and converted into bytecode. 
     this bytecode is a platform independent code because it can be run on multiple platforms and we can saya that Write Once and Run Anywhere (WORA)

  >secured
  java is cecured because
  1. no explicit poiter
  2. programs run inside virtual machin sendbox

  >Robust
  Robustsimple means strong. java  uses strong memory management .there are lock of pointer that avoids security problem. that is automic garbage collection in java.
  there is exception handling and type x=cheking mechanism in java. All these poits make java robust

  >Architectural neutral
  ther are no implementation dependent features like size of primitive types is set.

  >portable
  we may carry the java bytecode to any platform.

  >High-performance
  java is fast then traditional interpretation since byte code is "close" to native code stil somewhat slower then a compiled language(Example for c++)

  >Distributed 
  we can creat distributeded application in java. RMI and EJB are used for creating distributed applictions.

  >Multi-threaded 
  A thread is like a separate program , execution concurrently . we can write java progras that dwal with many tasts at once at by defining multiple threads.
  the main advantage of multi-threading is that it shares tha same memory. rhreads are important for multi-media applition ect.




where it is used?

 Accound to sun 3 million device run java.
 there are many divices  where java is currently used.
 1. Desktop Application
 2. wed Applition
 3. Enterprise Application
 4. mobail Application 
 5. Robotics
 6. Games
 7. samrt card

some obverviwe of execution

 It is a two-stage programming language, meaning that it is a compiled language and an interpreted one.
 However, it differs from most other compiled languages because it does not compile directly to an executable file.
 In Java, the code is first compiled and then translated into a binary form called Java Byte Code.

 fist of foll our code ".java" in convert into ".class" code by javac compiler (Java Byte code), then 
 ".class" code  run or we cas say that execute in other- other platform like "windows","mac","linux" unsing by JVM.
 JVM is "Java Virtual Machine" and JVM is interpreter.
 ".class" code can run many platform using JVM . so this reson we can say that this feature  Java call "Platform independent language".

Why java name for java language

 the team gathered to choose a new name. the suggested words "dynamic","silk","jolt","DNA" ...ect
 they want to unique name of Java prgramming language.

 Accound to james Gosling "Java was one of the top choices along with silk" since java was so unique, most of the team member  preferred java

 Java is an inland of Indonesia, where java coffee was produced (call java coffee).
 notice that Java  is just a name not an acronym.
 

